In this video I'll explain the fundamentals of cross V Center and NSX and explain how this new feature
in NSX that too can be utilized to create an NSX deployment that spans multiple The Center instances.
So in this lesson we'll cover the fundamentals of cross V Center NSX.
We'll look at some use cases and we'll differentiate between universal and logical objects.
Let's start by talking a little bit about NSX without cross V Center and SATs.
So a typical NSX deployment includes things like NSX manager every NSX deployment has to have an NSX
manager instance that's registered to the center so we have to have an avid sex controller cluster will
have components like the distributed alogical router and logical switches transport zones and the distributed
firewall.
So we're going to have all of these components that make up a typical single center NSX deployment and
the scope of our logical switches and our distributed logical router will be determined by the transport
zone.
And the transport zones are limited to the hosts and clusters that are managed by a single center instance.
So if you have another center instance there is no way to create a logical switch that spans both inventory's
now an NSX 6.2.
This is changed.
Now we can associate multiple NSX manager instances and manage them from a single interface.
We can create all their two layer 3 and firewall components that can span multiple V Center deployments
so NSX 2 or later supports this cross the center NSX feature and it allows us to modify the scope of
our sex objects.
Right now the scope of our logical switches and distributed logical routers are defined by the transport
zone.
If we have the ability to create transport zones that span multiple V Center inventories now we can
create objects like logical switches that can also span those V Center inventory's so with cross we
center our NSX we can create logical switches distributed firewall rules and distributed logical routers
that span multiple V Center instances.
So here we see a transport zone of a standard NSX deployment.
And in this scenario all of the clusters are managed by a single center server on the left.
We have our dev cluster with our dev hosts on the right.
We have our production cluster with our production hosts and we can create transport zones that include
some or all of those clusters.
So in this scenario transport Zone B includes the dev cluster.
And so if I create a logical switch like Vienna five thousand one that's associated with transport Zone
B that logical switch will only be presented to those dev hosts.
Now if I create another transport zone such as transport Zone A that's associated with multiple clusters
and then I create a logical switch such as V.N. five thousand two associated with transport Zone A.
That logical switch will span all of those hosts and I'll essentially have a layer 2 network that VM
is on any of those hosts can connect to and can communicate via Lerer too.
This is a local transport zone.
With cross V Center NSX we have another option called a universal transport zone.
So what do we use to define the scope of our alogical switches in Cross center and Isaak's we use transport
zones only they're called a universal transport zone now.
And any logical switches that we create in that universal transport zone will span both resetter instances.
Now we can still have traditional logical switches and transport zones as well.
So in our diagram here you can see we have one transport zone that's associated with the dev cluster
still right.
NF I create a logical switch associated with that transport zone that logical switch is only going to
be present on those DAPH hosts but up towards the top of our diagram we also have a universal transport
zone spanning multipole the center server inventory's and now I can create a universal logical switch
that spans those different V Center instances.
I can have a layer 2 network that is present at both of these sites and we'll talk about some of the
applications for that in a moment such as disaster recovery.
But before we get into that let's take a look at some of the other universal objects that we can create
like distributed firewall rules.
So let's assume that this virtual machine shown here has some sensitive information and we have protected
it with a universal firewall rule and we've created a universal transporter zone and down towards the
bottom of our screen we can see there's a universal logical switch that's available across multiple
V centers server inventory's
so we can use Wii motion to move this virtual machine from one Wii center inventory to another.
This is supported in these fair sex.
We have really relaxed the long distance Wii motion requirements and we've also enable crossover center
every motion in these first six.
So we take this V.M. and we motion it to a host that's managed by the other receptor shover and the
universal firewall rules will come along with that virtual machine to its new cluster.
There's a special section of our firewall configuration for universal firewalls and we can still create
normal firewall rules and those rules will only apply to a specific NSX manager instance but we can
also create those universal firewall rules as well.
Now the number of features supported by the universal firewall rules is pretty limited.
We don't have all of those service composer capabilities the universal firewall rules are basically
going to be IP sense.
But if that's what we need we can create those universal firewall rules and have them span multiple
Center instances.
Now let's talk about a couple of use cases.
Let's say that we have multiple active production centers sharers.
Maybe we have an active active data center scenario where we have some VM running at one data center
and some victims running at another data center and we have a wide area network connection that is less
than 150 milliseconds of latency round trip.
If we can meet those requirements we can create a layer to spand universal logical switch.
Now in order to do this we have to ensure that that empty you requirement is met for VX.
So we'll have to have a 6500 or larger MCU between those sites.
But now we've got the capability to create a consistent IP address scheme across these two sites.
We have a layer 2 network that's available at both sites.
And I can seamlessly move a VM from one site to another without any IP address changes.
This gives us a whole lot of capabilities that we may not have had otherwise.
And we can create those universal firewall rules to establish policies that go with that virtual machine
as it moves from site to site and we can enable local egress at each site.
So notice there is an edge of each site with connections to the Internet all of the traffic bound for
the Internet and each site will flow out of that local gress specific to that site.
That's one of our use cases.
The other use case is disaster recovery.
So let's say that we're doing disaster recovery with site recovery manager well and ASX six that too
is going to synchronize and sex objects across these sites.
So what we'll have in that scenario is logical switches that span both sites.
And this is a really important thing for disaster recovery because what SRM is going to do is it's going
to get the virtual machines back up.
It's going to connect them to logical switches and usually a lot of the work that you have to do with
site recovery manager is saying OK if the primary site fails this VM use that connect to this logical
switch.
Now it's connected to some other virtual switch at the recovery site.
We don't have to do that if we have a logical switch that's universal when that primary site fails.
Those VMS are going to be able to boot back up at the disaster recovery site.
On the same virtual switch that they were using at their original site.
So this overcomes the difficult disaster recovery challenge of setting up stretched layer 2 or readdressing
all of our virtual machines.
So in review we'll use cross recentre NSX to create universal objects such as universal logical switches
universal firewalls and universal distributed logical routers.
Our universal firewall rules will follow virtual machines from site to site regardless of which VI center
instance they reside on.
And we can still create those local objects if we want to just because we've deployed cross recentre
and OS X doesn't mean that every logical switch we create is going to span multiple Center instances.
The big benefit of crossfeed center NSX is that it allows the same where to network to be present at
different sites.
It also allows us to create a distributed logical router that is present at multiple sites as well.
And it supports active active and disaster recovery applications.